# 12th Annual Houston Indoor Tournament

## About

It's time for Houston's 12th annual Indoor Ultimate Tournament!

Indoor is a fast-paced, compact style of play, with a Swiss-style format (see
below). Indoor allows for a lot of creative throws and provides a great
atmosphere with lots of community socializing while 2 teams play.

Indoor is truly a unique ultimate experience that you and your friends wonâ€™t
want to miss.

## Registration

Registration is now open. Assemble your squad or email if you would like to be
put on a team.

Please send all bids, questions, or team requests to Matt Lyle
(<mblyle@gmail.com>).

## When

Saturday, March 25, 2017

7:00am - 3:00pm

## Location

[Southwest Indoor Soccer] @ [12950 Sugar Ridge Blvd 77477]

This is a different venue than previous years.

[Southwest Indoor Soccer]:http://www.letsplaysoccer.com/facilities/15
[12950 Sugar Ridge Blvd 77477]:https://www.google.com/maps/place/12950+Sugar+Ridge+Blvd+77477

## Teams Structure

**10 Coed teams**

**2-2 format, roster max of 11 players**

Roster max limit is 11 players per team. Game play is 4-on-4 (2/2 gender ratio)
with normal subbing.

**New for 2017:** We are once again tweaking the format. For this year we will
experiment with an equal gender ratio of 2/2 in a 4v4 format. USA Ultimate has
been experiment with this format in the Beach Division, and the similar field
size makes indoor a suitable fit to try it out as well. Safety is also an added
concern in indoor (walls, tighter space, etc), and we think the 4v4 format will
increase space & help further reduce the risk of collisions.

## Format

[Swiss Draw](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swiss-system_tournament)

This is a format that we have used the past several years that is designed to
allow all teams a fair position in the event (seeding is nearly irrelevant), and
create highly competitive match ups each round.

## Cost

**$200 per team if paid before Feb 19. $300 per team if paid after Feb 19.**

Please PayPal <mblyle@gmail.com> -- only personal PayPal and no credit cards, as
PayPal takes a fee from those.

Registration is open until all bids have been filled. Bids are secured once
payment has been received.

## FAQ

#### Isn't March 25 a little late for Indoor?

The weather may be nicer, but indoor is always a fun format. There are many
competing factors that determine the final date, while we believe a February
date is ideal, it did not work out this year.

#### What type of shoes can I wear at the venue?

Regular soccer or football style cleats are acceptable, as well as turf cleats.
The field is rubbery, soft "field turf".

#### Are there any special rules?

There are a few, which we will have posted on the website and distributed to
each of the captains. The most significant rules changes are that there is no
halftime, the stall is at 6 (first utterance of the 'sssssss' in six), the walls
and nets are out of bounds, the brick is mid field, and no upside down/blade/or
roller pulls.

#### How many games is my team guaranteed?

This will be determined based on the final number of teams, but you can expect
to play a minimum of 4-5 games, up to a max of 7.

#### Will there be an opportunity to play indoor pick-up before the tournament?

There very well could be, however we need someone to help organize it (plan
dates/times, collect payment, etc). If you are interested, please contact
<mblyle@gmail.com>.

There are also some indoor pickup games in Houston you can checkout before the
tournament:

* [Monday night in the Woodlands](https://pickupultimate.com/games/3451)
* [Saturday evening in Memorial](https://pickupultimate.com/games/3900)

#### Is there anyway I can help out?

Yes, and thank you. We will need a few volunteers to help run things the day of
(collect game scores, update the SWISS format, run the scoreboard, etc). We
could also use some people to help organize indoor pick-up (see above).

#### Can I bring a cooler of food or drinks to the venue?

Yes. Unlike last year, outside food and drink is welcome at the facility.

#### Are you aware there is a coed tournament in New Orleans the same weekend?

We are. The coinciding of the dates was unintentional. We encourage teams to
support the NOLA community and consider the indoor tournament as an alternative
option for those unable to travel for the weekend or looking for an event that
can accommodate a smaller roster size.

#### $200-$300? Are you trying to make a profit off this event?

No. The bid cost is essentially set to break even. Any "profit" gathered by the
event will be donated to support the growth of Houston Youth Ultimate.

#### What if I want to play but don't know enough people to put a team together?

It is not uncommon for some teams to inquire for 1-2 additional players, or for
enough interested pickups to justify forming a team. If you are interested in
picking up, please email <mblyle@gmail.com> and while we cannot make guarantees,
we will do our best to help you find a team.
